Introduction to Systems Manager Session Manager.
That's quite a mouthful indeed. Besides a tongue twister,
what can we use it for? Its main use case is to allow us to remotely and
securely connect to our Systems Manager managed instances.
How? By providing us with a browser‑based shell and
CLI on both Windows and Linux. Yes, command line only.
No matter which operating system you connect to, it's the same experience.
And really, what more do you need than a fully functioning command line?
What's so great about it? Well, we don't need a public IP on our instances.
All communication happens on the AWS Fabric,
which means that we can connect to instances and private
subnets completely shut off from the outside world, or even
on‑premises or on other clouds.
Every command we execute while logged into an instance can be centrally
logged to an S3 storage packet or to a CloudWatch log. Session Manager also
supports port forwarding for more advanced scenarios.
As an example, remember when Session Manager only gives us a command line?
Well,
what if in a rare instance we do need to do something via a UI on a
Windows server? We can use port forwarding to tunnel our RDP connection
via the Session Manager service and then get a full RDP session to our
private instance. Definitely worth checking out after we have covered the
basics here in this course. Session Manager comes at no cost for AWS
instances. However, for non‑AWS instances,
the advanced instances pricing tier is required and needs to
be enabled per account and per region.
The cost is fairly minimal, but definitely important to call out. Per
advanced instance, so that's every non‑AWS managed instance in your account
and region, AWS will charge us $.00695 US per hour. As an example, if we
had 100 on‑premises instances in a month,
we would have to pay roughly $507 US.
Why is remote access even a problem to solve? Aren't there are already
hundreds of established patterns around? Yes, and all of them are trying
to solve the problem of securely exposing RDP and SSH to the outside world
through bastion hosts or jump boxes and RDS gateways, and everybody
understands that this is a fairly difficult and definitely not a low
effort task to get right.
This is literally why cloud providers like AWS go and
offer a managed service for it.
It's super important to audit who connects to our instances from where,
when, and what do they do.
This can be very difficult depending on the operating system and
the manner in which users access the machines.
Lastly, as mentioned,
there are so many different patterns, often different depending on the
use case even, like which operating system needs to be accessed, if a
user is coming from the internet or VPN,
etc.
It's difficult to select the right pattern,
deploy that pattern, and then maintain that pattern.
It's almost a no‑brainer to select a managed service that
offers the same or similar experience, especially if it comes at the Session Manager's price tag.